--- 
layout: post
title: Goals for 2011
tags: 
- General
status: publish
type: post
published: true
meta: 
  email_notification: "1295656072"
  _edit_last: "255394"
  jabber_published: "1295656071"
  superawesome: "false"
---
I'm not usually one to have New Year's resolutions or come up with goals for the year but I think this year I should at least set up some goals for myself. I think I also need to be careful to not spread myself too thin and revisit this list occasionally to make sure I haven't lost focus.

<strong>Lighter Living</strong>

Although I do need to lose weight again (see next goal) this is about reducing the clutter and physical objects in my life. I'm not entirely sure where the drive is coming from, but I feel like I need to reduce the amount of stuff I have. I've already started making some progress by getting rid of a few things and putting side things I want to sell or donate.

There's a pretty big list of things to get rid of, but summarized they are:
<ul>
	<li>get rid of unused game/RPGS</li>
	<li>get rid of aging, unused musical equipment</li>
	<li>get rid of unused electronics</li>
	<li>get rid of outdated/irrelevant computer books</li>
	<li>consider digitizing my entire CD/DVD collection and getting rid of the cases</li>
	<li>prefer digital copies of music, movies and books over physical copies</li>
	<li>switch to a simpler, lighter, cleaner work desk</li>
</ul>
<strong>Losing Weight</strong>

At some point last year I managed to get myself down to around 190. But due to less biking, less exercise and probably some bad eating habits, I'm back up to around 215. So I need to make a stronger effort to get my weight back down. My ultimate goal is 180 but I'm first going to shoot for 195 by the middle of the year. To accomplish this I need to:
<ul>
	<li>watch/limit my calorie intake (using Lose It! On the iPhone)</li>
	<li>avoid snacking on bad foods, like cookies...</li>
	<li>more mountain biking (see below)</li>
	<li>some other form of exercise when I can't bike (most likely running)</li>
	<li>maybe getting back to yoga</li>
</ul>
<strong>Mountain Biking</strong>

I feel like I had an okay year of mountain biking this year. I don't think it was quite as good as my first year perhaps. I want to step it up again.

My mountain biking goals for this year will be:
<ul>
	<li>get out to ride more, at more locations and more diverse trails</li>
	<li>work on my mountain biking skills</li>
	<li>lead more rides via Meetup.com, including evening rides</li>
	<li>volunteering for more trail maintenance</li>
	<li>creating quality maps for trails in my area</li>
	<li>maintain or improve my bike repair skills</li>
	<li>make more/better mountain biking videos</li>
	<li>demo lots of different bikers</li>
</ul>
<strong>Game Development</strong>

Last year I got back into game development a little bit. The release of the Unreal Development Kit had me exploring bringing an old Marble Madness inspired project back to life. Frustration with UnrealScript and the UDK development cycle got me looking at the Unity engine instead. I made an investment in books about Unity, Blender and Game Design/Development in general. It's always been an interest of mine and I'd like to finally develop something to fruition. The goal here is to release a playable, finished, quality game.

<strong>Career Development / Involvement</strong>

My IT career has gone through several different areas: technical support, building computers and networks, system administration, graphic design, web design, web development, technical lead and software architecture. I am now the Build &amp; Deploy Architect in the Infrastructure team at my company and it's a good fit for me. I work at automating and improving processes, removing human error, creating standards and generally trying to improve things. This feels like a good place for me and I want to start working at some real goals for it. A long term goal is writing a book that guides developers through a number of practices such as version control, scripted builds, continuous integration, scripted deployments, unit testing and source code analysis. But before that I think I need to get some real experience under my belt. So some goals to get me there include:
<ul>
	<li>creating a build monitor at work and making it publicly visible</li>
	<li>going to more conferences</li>
	<li>communicating with the different groups I work with more (developers, qa, operations, infrastructure, support, managers)</li>
	<li>create and maintain a blog with articles and examples</li>
</ul>
So there are my goals for 2011. Reading it over makes it seem like a lot but there are 12 months in the year and I've already taken steps towards a number of my goals, so I feel like they're doable.
